Even though this band has only started about a year and a half or so ago, they're really getting to be quite popular.
They've been doing quite a lot of concert work. We wish to thank them for their contributions.
Right now, we're going to have some talk about remembering.
My grandfather's parents and grandmother came over from Wales in 1900, and they landed in New York City in May.
They came with four children ages 6 to 14.
They were coming across the country by train, but before they left Wales, they were told all these horror stories about the cowboys and the Indians.
The Indians scalped you and the cowboys just as well shoot you for nothing.
So when they were on a day out of Chicago, five cowboys came on the train. They were all afraid.
My grandmother told the children to stop staring and be quiet.
Speaking in Wales, one of the cowboys turned around and looked at her.
After a while, my grandparents started the children singing, which they had been doing along on the train, and everybody on the train liked to hear them singing.
Because each of them sang... Well, Dave sang in bass, and Maude, my mother, sang in alto, and May soprano, and Albert tenor.
And my grandmother had a good soprano voice, and my grandfather was a tenor.
So they started the children singing.
And one of the cowboys turned around and stared at them.
And pretty soon he got up and walked towards them.
And of course they got scared.
But they looked up at him, and then they saw tears running down his cheeks.
He says, do not be afraid. In Welsh to them.
He says, because I am from Wales. I left Wales seven years ago, and that's the most beautiful music that I've ever heard since I left there.
My grandmother started talking with him, and she found out that he had not been riding home.
So she told him he better ride home to his mother.
And tell her that he was all right.
But the first Indians they saw was when they got off the train at Auburn.
But they weren't very bad-looking Indians.
They went to my grandmother's brother's place, which was at Covington, which is just out between Auburn and Black Diamond.
And my grandfather got work right away in the mines in Black Diamond.
Mr. Morgan, the mine superintendent, took a liking to my grandfather and soon found him a house.
It was the one house that was next to the confectionery store across from the depot in Black Diamond.
Being a mining town, it was kind of a bad place with all the pool halls and taverns.
And my grandparents realized there was no place for the young men that were working in the mine, the young single Welsh people, to go.
So they opened up their house to them. And day and night people came and went.
My grandmother had a steady order for five pounds of tea a month from Dan Davis the tea man.
They came out on the train from Seattle.
Even after they moved out into the country on the farm between Auburn and Enumka, the Welsh people still came.
And even some of these Welsh boys, even though they had married and had families, they would still bring their Welsh families out to the country.
And they would all gather around the old pump organ and sing in Welsh and have tea and Welsh cakes.
Of course, my grandfather was Sunday school superintendent.
He served Sunday school superintendent in the church in Black Diamond.
And then he started the Wabash Presbyterian Church out there where they lived.
And he was Sunday school superintendent for 50 years.
And Welsh people used to come out.
Our church service was because we shared it with the minister from the Auburn church.
The service was in the afternoon.
And many of the Welsh would, after being in church in Seattle, would drive out to the little country churches, they called it, and come.
And of course, when they came, the raptors really rang with their singing.
Somebody asked me about food.
Well, yes, we did have some Welsh food in our home.
There was one dish that my mother used to make.
It was called the old country steak.
She would take and cut up onions in the bottom of the casserole and then cut up the steak in thin strips and put a little water with that.
And then put it in the old wood stove in the oven and let it cook for a long time.
That made a really delicious gravy.
And that usually served with a little thick thing was usually served over potatoes or with parsnips and carrots or rutabagas.
And she did make pickled red cabbage.
I sure wish I knew how she used to do it because I remember used to cutting up the cabbage, but I don't remember how she did it.
And then when my father butchered, she always made faggots.
And she and my grandmother would also take and make bacon and ham by rubbing brown sugar and salt into fresh pork.
And it would hang until it was dry.
It was wonderful.
On Ash Wednesday, my grandmother always made croiss.
It's like a very thin pancake, something like a Swedish pancake.
And after it's cooked, it's buttered and sprinkled with sugar and a little lemon juice and then rolled up and served.
They were delicious.
And my mother always made pies on Friday.
And she would always make about seven or eight of them.
And we'd always hurry home from school because we knew that she would always roll out this Welsh apple pie.
Now, this was made by rolling out a big sheet of dough.
And then she would cut apples on half of it and then bring the dough up over the top of it and then put it in the oven and bake it.
And then when it was baked, she would take it out, slice it in two, taking that top crust off,
and then spreading the apples over it and with butter and sugar on that.
And it was really wonderful.
And of course, we had the plum pudding and the raisin cake at Easter.
My mother and my grandmother always attended the St. David's Day or any of the Kamanas here in Seattle or in Renton.
Anytime the Welsh were singing anyplace, they were there.